README.md, before:

# Secretary
[![Travis CI](https://img.shields.io/travis/meltwater/secretary/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/meltwater/secretary)
[![Coverage Status](http://codecov.io/github/meltwater/secretary/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/meltwater/secretary?branch=master)

[Secretary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secretary#Etymology) solves the problem of
secrets distribution and authorization in highly dynamic container and VM environments. 
[NaCL](http://nacl.cr.yp.to/) and [AWS Key Management Service (KMS)](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/)
are supported crypto backends and can be mixed freely. 

The `secretary` client performs either local or remote decryption using NaCL keys, AWS KMS or 
by calling `secretary daemon` when deployed in a containers via Marathon. Encryption is done
at configuration time through public NaCL keys or by calling KMS.

In daemon mode Secretary uses [Marathon](https://mesosphere.github.io/marathon/) to 
determine which container can access what secrets, and how to authenticate that container. 
This allows delegation of secrets management to non-admin users and keeps configuration, 
secrets and software versions together throughout the delivery pipeline.

AWS EC2 instances use `secretary` locally to decrypt secrets embedded into the user-data 
or VM image. AWS KMS, IAM Roles and CloudTrail provides access control and audit trails 
on the instance level. In Mesos clusters it's usually not desirable to have slave nodes 
access KMS directly, rather the `secretary daemon` can authenticate containers with NaCL
signatures and delegate the actual decryption to KMS.

## System Components

- `secretary` executable embedded into service Docker images and with access to
   *deploy-private-key* and the optional *service-private-key*.
- `secretary daemon` running on master nodes behind a load balancer and with
   access to *master-private-key* and the Marathon REST API.
- *config repo* containing environment specific config, public keys and encrypted secrets.

## Encryption
Secretary uses [NaCL](http://nacl.cr.yp.to/) boxes through the golang
[crypto/nacl](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/crypto/nacl/box) package. Boxes
are encrypted and signed using modern and strong public key cryptography.

Secretary uses 4 distinct key pairs for encrypting secrets and authenticating
service instances.

- *master* key is used to encrypt the secrets stored in the *config repo* and is
  generated for each environment. The *master-public-key* is stored in the
  *config repo* to allow easy configuration updates. The *master-private-key*
  is stored securely on the master nodes where `secretary daemon` runs.

- *config* key pair is used to sign encrypted secrets and control who can create
  encrypted secrets. A key pair is generated for each environment and stored in
  the *config repo* to enable easy configuration updates.

- *deploy* key pair is used to control what service can access what secrets, and
  to authenticate services at runtime. It is generated automatically at deployment
  time for each service, and is part of the Marathon app config. When using
  [Lighter](https://github.com/meltwater/lighter) it will generate this key pair 
  automatically.

  Access to the Marathon REST API should be restricted to avoid reading out the
  *deploy* private keys, and not to mention prevent anyone from starting containers
  with `--privileged --volume=/:/host-root`.

- The optional *service* key pair is used to authenticate Docker images or slave
  nodes. The private key is generated at Docker or VM image build time. It could be
  stored directly in the Docker image or in a VM image and mounted into
  the container.

### Compared to Centralized Systems?
Benefits of using public key cryptography compared to centrally
managed token-based systems like [Vault](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault) or
[KeyWhiz](https://github.com/square/keywhiz)

- Encryption of secrets and modifications to the *config repo* can safely be 
  performed without needing admin access to a central secrets management system.

- It's often desirable to tightly couple deployment of configuration and secrets
  with software deployments in a continuous delivery pipeline. *Configuration as code*
  implies managing configuration and secrets in the same way and using the same pipeline
  as software releases goes though.

  This helps avoid mismatches between what parameters and secrets a specific software
  version expects, and what's actually present in the central secret/config management
  system.

### Initial Secret Problem?
In token-based systems a problem occurs where the token that gives access to secrets
needs to be securely managed. Any holder of a token can use it to request the plaintext
secrets. A token should typically not be checked into source control or it will be
available to anyone with access to the *config repo*.

Secretary mitigates this problem by storing encrypted secrets in the *config repo* and
keeping them encrypted all the way into the runtime environment. Secrets are only ever 
decrypted inside the container at startup and stored in environment variables visible
only to the service.

### What is needed to get the secrets?

In the runtime env:

- Encrypted secret from runtime config
- *Deploy* private key from runtime config
- *Service* private key from Docker image or slave node
- Network access to `secretary daemon`

Or with access to the *config repo*:

- Encrypted secret from *config repo*
- Master private key from master nodes


## Getting Started
The *master* and *config* key pairs are created once and for each environment using
`secretary genkeys`, which defaults to put keys into the ./keys/ directory. Provision
all the keys to each master nodes, including the highly sensitive *master-private-key*.

Store *master-public-key* and *config private/public key* in the *config repo* together
with other environment config and encrypted secrets. This enables users with access to the
*config repo* to encrypt secrets and store them in the config.

Generate a new *deploy* key for each deployment and insert it into the `env` element
of the Marathon app config. [Lighter](https://github.com/meltwater/lighter) will perform 
this step automatically given this config example

*someenv/globals.yml* - stored in the Lighter *config repo*
```
secretary:
  url: 'https://secretary-daemon-loadbalancer:5070'
  master:
    publickey: 'someenv/keys/master-public-key.pem'
```

*someenv/myservice.yml* - stored in the Lighter *config repo*
```
maven:
  groupid: "com.example"
  artifactid: "myservice"
  classifier: "marathon"
  resolve: [1.0.0,2.0.0)
override:
  env:
    DATABASE_USERNAME: "myservice"
    DATABASE_PASSWORD: "ENC[NACL,NVnSkhxA010D2yOWKRFog0jpUvHQzmkmKKHmqAbHAnz8oGbPEFkDfyKHQHGO7w==]"
    DATABASE_URL: "jdbc:mysql://hostname:3306/schema"
```

### Service Key In Docker Image
The service key is optional but adds extra security. It is required by `secretary daemon`
to authenticate a service if its Marathon app *env* defines the *$SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY* variable.

At build time generate a new *service* key using e.g. `secretary genkeys service` and embed
the *service-private-key* into the Docker image. Ensure it's `chmod 0600` root-only readable
and that a new key is created for each build/release.

The *service-public-key* needs to be available in the Marathon app *env* as *$SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY*
so that `secretary daemon` can find it when querying Marathon. A solution could be deploying
a template JSON app config to a Maven repository and use [Lighter](https://github.com/meltwater/lighter)
to pull it down at deployment time. For example

*myservice-1.0.0-marathon.json* - deployed to Maven
```
{
  "id": "/myproduct/mysubsystem/myservice"
  "env" {
    "SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY": "rEmz7Rt6tUnlC4TKYeNzePYg+p1ePAw4BAtfJAY4zzs="
  }
}
```

### Service Key In VM Image
Generate a service key using e.g. `secretary genkeys service` and embed the *service-private-key*
into the VM image. Ensure that the *service-public-key* is available in the Marathon app *env*
as *$SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY*. A [Lighter](https://github.com/meltwater/lighter) config could look like
like

*someenv/globals.yml* - stored in the Lighter *config repo*
```
variables:
  secretary.service.publickey: "WvDT+V2fB5ZKkbAmHaFh2XqDXC/veVsl1FKSE/HzxC0="
```

*someenv/myservice.yml*
```
override:
  env:
    SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY: "%{secretary.service.publickey}"
  container:
    volumes:
     - containerPath: "/service/keys"
       hostPath: "/etc/secretary/service-keys"
       mode: "RO"
```

## Runtime Config
An runtime config automatically expanded by Lighter might look like

```
{
    "id": "/myproduct/mysubsystem/myservice"
    ...
    "env" {
        "SECRETARY_URL": "https://secretary-daemon-loadbalancer:5070",
        "MASTER_PUBLIC_KEY": "MX+S1xWkxfKlZUvzaEhBLkIVWEkwIrEaD9uKXVC5IGE=",
        "DEPLOY_PUBLIC_KEY": "0k+v11LV3SOr+XiFJ/ug0KcPPhwkXnVirmO65nAd1LI=",
        "DEPLOY_PRIVATE_KEY": "rEmz7Rt6tUnlC4TKYeNzePYg+p1ePAw4BAtfJAY4zzs=",
        "SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY": "/1fbWGMTaR+lLQJnEsmxdfwWybKOpPQpyWB3FpNmOF4=",
        "DATABASE_USERNAME": "myservice",
        "DATABASE_PASSWORD": "ENC[NACL,SLXf+O9iG48uyojT0Zg30Q8/uRV8DizuDWMWtgL5PmTU54jxp5cTGrYeLpd86rA=]",
        "DATABASE_URL": "jdbc:mysql://hostname:3306/schema"
        "BUCKET_TOKEN": "ENC[KMS,RP+BAwEBCmttc1BheWxvYWQB/4IAAQMBEEVuY3J5cHRlZERhdGFLZXkBCgABBU5vbmNlA==]"
    }
    ...
}
```

## Container Startup Sequence
Docker images should embed the `secretary` executable. Call it at container startup to decrypt
environment variables, before starting the actual service.

*Dockerfile*
```
# Install secretary
ENV SECRETARY_VERSION x.y.z
RUN curl -fsSLo /usr/bin/secretary "https://github.com/meltwater/secretary/releases/download/${SECRETARY_VERSION}/secretary-`uname -s`-`uname -m`" && \
    chmod +x /usr/bin/secretary
```

Container startup examples
```
#!/bin/sh
set -e

# Decrypt secrets
if [ "$SECRETARY_URL" != "" ]; then
  if [ "$SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY" != "" ]; then
    SECRETS=$(secretary decrypt -e --service-key=/service/keys/service-private-key.pem)
  else
    SECRETS=$(secretary decrypt -e)
  fi

  eval "$SECRETS"
  unset SECRETS
fi

# Start the service
exec ...
```

The complete decryption sequence could be described as

1. *client* asks the *secretary daemon* for the `DATABASE_PASSWORD` secret to be decrypted. This
   exchange is encrypted/authenticated using *master-public-key*, *deploy-private-key* and
   *service-private-key*.
2. *daemon* retrieves `SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY` and `DEPLOY_PUBLIC_KEY` from Marathon and uses it to
    authenticate the service.
3. *daemon* validates that the service has access to the given secret by checking the
   `env` segment of its Marathon app config.
4. *daemon* decrypts the secret using *master-private-key* and authenticates with *config-public-key*.
5. *daemon* re-encrypts the plaintext secret with *service-public-key* and *deploy-public-key*,
   signed with *master-private-key* before sending it back to the client.
6. *client* decrypts the secret using *deploy-private-key* and *service-private-key*,
   authenticating with *master-public-key*.
7. *client* outputs a sh script `export DATABASE_PASSWORD='secret'` fragment that is sourced into the
   service environment.

## Installation
Place a `secretary` script in the root of your configuration repo. Replace the SECRETARY_VERSION with
a version from the [releases page](https://github.com/meltwater/secretary/releases).

```
#!/bin/bash
set -e

SECRETARY_VERSION="x.y.z"

BASEDIR="$( cd "$( dirname "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}" )" && pwd )"
SECRETARY="$BASEDIR/target/secretary-`uname -s`-`uname -m`-${SECRETARY_VERSION}"

if [ ! -x "$SECRETARY" ]; then
    mkdir -p $(dirname "$SECRETARY")
    curl -sSfLo "$SECRETARY" https://github.com/meltwater/secretary/releases/download/${SECRETARY_VERSION}/secretary-`uname -s`-`uname -m`
    chmod +x "$SECRETARY"
fi

exec "$SECRETARY" $@
```

## Command Line Usage

```
# Avoid secrets ending up in bash history
set +o history

# Generate master and config key pairs
./secretary genkeys

# Generate example deploy and service key pairs
./secretary genkeys mydeploy myservice

# Generate an example service key
./secretary genkeys myservice

# Encrypt for writing into deployment config files
echo -n secret | ./secretary encrypt

# Encrypt using Amazon AWS KMS
# Note: You need AWS credentials setup in ~/.aws/credentials or envvars $AWS_ACCESS_KEY, $AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY, $AWS_REGION
echo -n secret | ./secretary encrypt --kms-key-id=12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012

# Decrypt (requires access to master-private-key)
echo <encrypted> | ./secretary decrypt

# Decrypt and substitute encrypted environment variables
eval $(./secretary decrypt -e)

# Decrypt all encrypted substrings in file
cat /path/to/secrets | ./secretary decrypt
```

## Secretary Daemon
Deploy several instances of the `secretary daemon` to trusted master nodes and create a
load balancer in front of them to ensure high availability. The daemon defaults to
bind to 5070/tcp. The `secretary daemon` is completely stateless and can be load balanced
easily.

### Systemd and CoreOS/Fleet
Create a [Systemd unit](http://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.unit.html) file
in **/etc/systemd/system/secretary.service** with contents like below. Using CoreOS and
[Fleet](https://coreos.com/docs/launching-containers/launching/fleet-unit-files/) then
add the X-Fleet section to schedule the unit on master nodes.

```
[Unit]
Description=Secretary secrets distribution
After=docker.service
Requires=docker.service

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target

[Service]
Environment=IMAGE=meltwater/secretary:latest NAME=secretary

# Allow docker pull to take some time
TimeoutStartSec=600

# Restart on failures
KillMode=none
Restart=always
RestartSec=15

ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker kill ${NAME}
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker rm ${NAME}
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker pull ${IMAGE}
ExecStart=/usr/bin/docker run --name=${NAME} \
    -p 5070:5070 \
    -v /etc/secretary/master-keys:/keys \
    -e MARATHON_URL=http://marathon-host:8080 \
    $IMAGE

ExecStop=/usr/bin/docker stop $NAME

[X-Fleet]
Global=true
MachineMetadata=role=master
```

### Puppet Hiera

Using the [garethr-docker](https://github.com/garethr/garethr-docker) module

```
classes:
  - docker::run_instance

docker::run_instance:
  'secretary':
    image: 'meltwater/secretary:latest'
    ports:
      - '5070:5070'
    volumes:
      - '/etc/secretary/master-keys:/keys'
    env:
      - 'MARATHON_URL=http://marathon-host:8080'
```

## Amazon AWS KMS
Secretary can encrypt and decrypt secrets using [AWS Key Management Service](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/)
which provides hardware security modules (HSMs) for key storage and access control, as well as audit logs
of key usage.

When interacting with KMS to encrypt or decrypt secrets you or the instance needs access to the AWS API
and the specific KMS key. Key access is managed via the AWS IAM console and can be both on the KMS API level
as well as fine grained permissions for each key.

For workstation access to encrypt secrets you typically need AWS credentials setup in *~/.aws/credentials* or 
environment variables *$AWS_ACCESS_KEY*, *$AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY* and *$AWS_REGION* so that secretary can interact 
with the KMS API.

AWS EC2 instances should use IAM roles rather than access keys, to grant them access to the KMS API and the 
specific KMS keys.

### Secrets in user-data
When using [CoreOS cloud-config](https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/cloud-config.html) and passing secrets
in the user-data section. 

In the examples replace the SECRETARY_VERSION with a version from the [releases page](https://github.com/meltwater/secretary/releases).
You also need to replace the `e59c5534e4e6fb3c2ad0d3c075d9e2fa664889b9` sha1sum with one that is calculated
from the exact version you intend to use. This can be done like

```
curl -sSL https://github.com/meltwater/secretary/releases/download/${SECRETARY_VERSION}/secretary-Linux-x86_64 | sha1sum -
```

#### Embedded Secretary binary
This CoreOS user-data example writes out /etc/environment.encrypted with encrypted secrets and forwards them 
into a Docker container as encrypted environment variables. The Docker image embeds the secretary binary and 
its startup script decrypts the environment using `eval $(secretary decrypt -e)`

```
#cloud-config
---
coreos:
  units:
  - name: myservice.service
    command: start
    content: |
      [Unit]
      After=docker.service decrypt.service
      Requires=docker.service decrypt.service

      [Service]
      EnvironmentFile=/etc/environment.encrypted
      Environment=IMAGE=myservice:latest NAME=myservice

      # Allow docker pull to take some time
      TimeoutStartSec=600

      # Restart on failures
      KillMode=none
      Restart=always
      RestartSec=15

      # Start Docker container
      ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker kill ${NAME}
      ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker rm ${NAME}
      ExecStartPre=-/bin/sh -c 'if ! docker images | tr -s " " : | grep "^${IMAGE}:"; then docker pull "${IMAGE}"; fi'      
      ExecStart=/usr/bin/docker run --name ${NAME} \
        -e "DATABASE_PASSWORD=${DATABASE_PASSWORD}" \
        -e "API_KEY=${API_KEY}" \
        ${IMAGE}

write_files:
  - path: "/etc/environment.encrypted"
    permissions: "0600"
    owner: "root"
    content: |
      DATABASE_PASSWORD=ENC[KMS,RP+BAwEBCmttc1BheWxvYWQB/4IAAQMBEEVuY3J5cHRlZERhdGFLZXkBCgABBU5vbmNlA==]
      API_KEY=ENC[KMS,SLXf+O9iG48uyojT0Zg30Q8/uRV8DizuDWMWtgL5PmTU54jxp5cTGrYeLpd86rA==]
```

#### External Secretary binary
This CoreOS user-data example writes out /etc/environment.encrypted with encrypted secrets. Then uses 
secretary and KMS to decrypt them and forwards the secrets into a Docker container as unencrypted environment variables.

```
#cloud-config
---
coreos:
  units:
  - name: myservice.service
    command: start
    content: |
      [Unit]
      After=docker.service decrypt.service
      Requires=docker.service decrypt.service

      [Service]
      EnvironmentFile=/etc/environment.encrypted
      Environment=IMAGE=myservice:latest NAME=myservice SECRETARY_VERSION=x.y.z

      # Allow docker pull to take some time
      TimeoutStartSec=600

      # Restart on failures
      KillMode=none
      Restart=always
      RestartSec=15

      # Download and verify signature of secretary binary
      ExecStartPre=/bin/sh -c '\
        if [ ! -f /usr/bin/secretary ]; then 
          curl -sSLo /usr/bin/secretary https://github.com/meltwater/secretary/releases/download/${SECRETARY_VERSION}/secretary-Linux-x86_64 && \
          chmod +x /usr/bin/secretary; 
        fi'
      ExecStartPre=/bin/sh -c 'echo e59c5534e4e6fb3c2ad0d3c075d9e2fa664889b9 /usr/bin/secretary | sha1sum -c -'

      # Start Docker container
      ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker kill ${NAME}
      ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker rm ${NAME}
      ExecStartPre=-/bin/sh -c 'if ! docker images | tr -s " " : | grep "^${IMAGE}:"; then docker pull "${IMAGE}"; fi'      
      ExecStart=/bin/sh -c 'eval $(secretary decrypt -e) && docker run --name myservice \
        -e "DATABASE_PASSWORD=${DATABASE_PASSWORD}" \
        -e "API_KEY=${API_KEY}" \
        myservice:latest'

write_files:
  - path: "/etc/environment.encrypted"
    permissions: "0600"
    owner: "root"
    content: |
      DATABASE_PASSWORD=ENC[KMS,RP+BAwEBCmttc1BheWxvYWQB/4IAAQMBEEVuY3J5cHRlZERhdGFLZXkBCgABBU5vbmNlA==]
      API_KEY=ENC[KMS,SLXf+O9iG48uyojT0Zg30Q8/uRV8DizuDWMWtgL5PmTU54jxp5cTGrYeLpd86rA==]
```

Commit message:

Added a /v1/status endpoint for use with load balancer health checks

README.md, after:

# Secretary
[![Travis CI](https://img.shields.io/travis/meltwater/secretary/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/meltwater/secretary)
[![Coverage Status](http://codecov.io/github/meltwater/secretary/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/meltwater/secretary?branch=master)

[Secretary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secretary#Etymology) solves the problem of
secrets distribution and authorization in highly dynamic container and VM environments. 
[NaCL](http://nacl.cr.yp.to/) and [AWS Key Management Service (KMS)](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/)
are supported crypto backends and can be mixed freely. 

The `secretary` client performs either local or remote decryption using NaCL keys, AWS KMS or 
by calling `secretary daemon` when deployed in a containers via Marathon. Encryption is done
at configuration time through public NaCL keys or by calling KMS.

In daemon mode Secretary uses [Marathon](https://mesosphere.github.io/marathon/) to 
determine which container can access what secrets, and how to authenticate that container. 
This allows delegation of secrets management to non-admin users and keeps configuration, 
secrets and software versions together throughout the delivery pipeline.

AWS EC2 instances use `secretary` locally to decrypt secrets embedded into the user-data 
or VM image. AWS KMS, IAM Roles and CloudTrail provides access control and audit trails 
on the instance level. In Mesos clusters it's usually not desirable to have slave nodes 
access KMS directly, rather the `secretary daemon` can authenticate containers with NaCL
signatures and delegate the actual decryption to KMS.

## System Components

- `secretary` executable embedded into service Docker images and with access to
   *deploy-private-key* and the optional *service-private-key*.
- `secretary daemon` running on master nodes behind a load balancer and with
   access to *master-private-key* and the Marathon REST API.
- *config repo* containing environment specific config, public keys and encrypted secrets.

## Encryption
Secretary uses [NaCL](http://nacl.cr.yp.to/) boxes through the golang
[crypto/nacl](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/crypto/nacl/box) package. Boxes
are encrypted and signed using modern and strong public key cryptography.

Secretary uses 4 distinct key pairs for encrypting secrets and authenticating
service instances.

- *master* key is used to encrypt the secrets stored in the *config repo* and is
  generated for each environment. The *master-public-key* is stored in the
  *config repo* to allow easy configuration updates. The *master-private-key*
  is stored securely on the master nodes where `secretary daemon` runs.

- *config* key pair is used to sign encrypted secrets and control who can create
  encrypted secrets. A key pair is generated for each environment and stored in
  the *config repo* to enable easy configuration updates.

- *deploy* key pair is used to control what service can access what secrets, and
  to authenticate services at runtime. It is generated automatically at deployment
  time for each service, and is part of the Marathon app config. When using
  [Lighter](https://github.com/meltwater/lighter) it will generate this key pair 
  automatically.

  Access to the Marathon REST API should be restricted to avoid reading out the
  *deploy* private keys, and not to mention prevent anyone from starting containers
  with `--privileged --volume=/:/host-root`.

- The optional *service* key pair is used to authenticate Docker images or slave
  nodes. The private key is generated at Docker or VM image build time. It could be
  stored directly in the Docker image or in a VM image and mounted into
  the container.

### Compared to Centralized Systems?
Benefits of using public key cryptography compared to centrally
managed token-based systems like [Vault](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault) or
[KeyWhiz](https://github.com/square/keywhiz)

- Encryption of secrets and modifications to the *config repo* can safely be 
  performed without needing admin access to a central secrets management system.

- It's often desirable to tightly couple deployment of configuration and secrets
  with software deployments in a continuous delivery pipeline. *Configuration as code*
  implies managing configuration and secrets in the same way and using the same pipeline
  as software releases goes though.

  This helps avoid mismatches between what parameters and secrets a specific software
  version expects, and what's actually present in the central secret/config management
  system.

### Initial Secret Problem?
In token-based systems a problem occurs where the token that gives access to secrets
needs to be securely managed. Any holder of a token can use it to request the plaintext
secrets. A token should typically not be checked into source control or it will be
available to anyone with access to the *config repo*.

Secretary mitigates this problem by storing encrypted secrets in the *config repo* and
keeping them encrypted all the way into the runtime environment. Secrets are only ever 
decrypted inside the container at startup and stored in environment variables visible
only to the service.

### What is needed to get the secrets?

In the runtime env:

- Encrypted secret from runtime config
- *Deploy* private key from runtime config
- *Service* private key from Docker image or slave node
- Network access to `secretary daemon`

Or with access to the *config repo*:

- Encrypted secret from *config repo*
- Master private key from master nodes


## Getting Started
The *master* and *config* key pairs are created once and for each environment using
`secretary genkeys`, which defaults to put keys into the ./keys/ directory. Provision
all the keys to each master nodes, including the highly sensitive *master-private-key*.

Store *master-public-key* and *config private/public key* in the *config repo* together
with other environment config and encrypted secrets. This enables users with access to the
*config repo* to encrypt secrets and store them in the config.

Generate a new *deploy* key for each deployment and insert it into the `env` element
of the Marathon app config. [Lighter](https://github.com/meltwater/lighter) will perform 
this step automatically given this config example

*someenv/globals.yml* - stored in the Lighter *config repo*
```
secretary:
  url: 'https://secretary-daemon-loadbalancer:5070'
  master:
    publickey: 'someenv/keys/master-public-key.pem'
```

*someenv/myservice.yml* - stored in the Lighter *config repo*
```
maven:
  groupid: "com.example"
  artifactid: "myservice"
  classifier: "marathon"
  resolve: [1.0.0,2.0.0)
override:
  env:
    DATABASE_USERNAME: "myservice"
    DATABASE_PASSWORD: "ENC[NACL,NVnSkhxA010D2yOWKRFog0jpUvHQzmkmKKHmqAbHAnz8oGbPEFkDfyKHQHGO7w==]"
    DATABASE_URL: "jdbc:mysql://hostname:3306/schema"
```

### Service Key In Docker Image
The service key is optional but adds extra security. It is required by `secretary daemon`
to authenticate a service if its Marathon app *env* defines the *$SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY* variable.

At build time generate a new *service* key using e.g. `secretary genkeys service` and embed
the *service-private-key* into the Docker image. Ensure it's `chmod 0600` root-only readable
and that a new key is created for each build/release.

The *service-public-key* needs to be available in the Marathon app *env* as *$SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY*
so that `secretary daemon` can find it when querying Marathon. A solution could be deploying
a template JSON app config to a Maven repository and use [Lighter](https://github.com/meltwater/lighter)
to pull it down at deployment time. For example

*myservice-1.0.0-marathon.json* - deployed to Maven
```
{
  "id": "/myproduct/mysubsystem/myservice"
  "env" {
    "SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY": "rEmz7Rt6tUnlC4TKYeNzePYg+p1ePAw4BAtfJAY4zzs="
  }
}
```

### Service Key In VM Image
Generate a service key using e.g. `secretary genkeys service` and embed the *service-private-key*
into the VM image. Ensure that the *service-public-key* is available in the Marathon app *env*
as *$SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY*. A [Lighter](https://github.com/meltwater/lighter) config could look like
like

*someenv/globals.yml* - stored in the Lighter *config repo*
```
variables:
  secretary.service.publickey: "WvDT+V2fB5ZKkbAmHaFh2XqDXC/veVsl1FKSE/HzxC0="
```

*someenv/myservice.yml*
```
override:
  env:
    SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY: "%{secretary.service.publickey}"
  container:
    volumes:
     - containerPath: "/service/keys"
       hostPath: "/etc/secretary/service-keys"
       mode: "RO"
```

## Runtime Config
An runtime config automatically expanded by Lighter might look like

```
{
    "id": "/myproduct/mysubsystem/myservice"
    ...
    "env" {
        "SECRETARY_URL": "https://secretary-daemon-loadbalancer:5070",
        "MASTER_PUBLIC_KEY": "MX+S1xWkxfKlZUvzaEhBLkIVWEkwIrEaD9uKXVC5IGE=",
        "DEPLOY_PUBLIC_KEY": "0k+v11LV3SOr+XiFJ/ug0KcPPhwkXnVirmO65nAd1LI=",
        "DEPLOY_PRIVATE_KEY": "rEmz7Rt6tUnlC4TKYeNzePYg+p1ePAw4BAtfJAY4zzs=",
        "SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY": "/1fbWGMTaR+lLQJnEsmxdfwWybKOpPQpyWB3FpNmOF4=",
        "DATABASE_USERNAME": "myservice",
        "DATABASE_PASSWORD": "ENC[NACL,SLXf+O9iG48uyojT0Zg30Q8/uRV8DizuDWMWtgL5PmTU54jxp5cTGrYeLpd86rA=]",
        "DATABASE_URL": "jdbc:mysql://hostname:3306/schema"
        "BUCKET_TOKEN": "ENC[KMS,RP+BAwEBCmttc1BheWxvYWQB/4IAAQMBEEVuY3J5cHRlZERhdGFLZXkBCgABBU5vbmNlA==]"
    }
    ...
}
```

## Container Startup Sequence
Docker images should embed the `secretary` executable. Call it at container startup to decrypt
environment variables, before starting the actual service.

*Dockerfile*
```
# Install secretary
ENV SECRETARY_VERSION x.y.z
RUN curl -fsSLo /usr/bin/secretary "https://github.com/meltwater/secretary/releases/download/${SECRETARY_VERSION}/secretary-`uname -s`-`uname -m`" && \
    chmod +x /usr/bin/secretary
```

Container startup examples
```
#!/bin/sh
set -e

# Decrypt secrets
if [ "$SECRETARY_URL" != "" ]; then
  if [ "$SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY" != "" ]; then
    SECRETS=$(secretary decrypt -e --service-key=/service/keys/service-private-key.pem)
  else
    SECRETS=$(secretary decrypt -e)
  fi

  eval "$SECRETS"
  unset SECRETS
fi

# Start the service
exec ...
```

The complete decryption sequence could be described as

1. *client* asks the *secretary daemon* for the `DATABASE_PASSWORD` secret to be decrypted. This
   exchange is encrypted/authenticated using *master-public-key*, *deploy-private-key* and
   *service-private-key*.
2. *daemon* retrieves `SERVICE_PUBLIC_KEY` and `DEPLOY_PUBLIC_KEY` from Marathon and uses it to
    authenticate the service.
3. *daemon* validates that the service has access to the given secret by checking the
   `env` segment of its Marathon app config.
4. *daemon* decrypts the secret using *master-private-key* and authenticates with *config-public-key*.
5. *daemon* re-encrypts the plaintext secret with *service-public-key* and *deploy-public-key*,
   signed with *master-private-key* before sending it back to the client.
6. *client* decrypts the secret using *deploy-private-key* and *service-private-key*,
   authenticating with *master-public-key*.
7. *client* outputs a sh script `export DATABASE_PASSWORD='secret'` fragment that is sourced into the
   service environment.

## Installation
Place a `secretary` script in the root of your configuration repo. Replace the SECRETARY_VERSION with
a version from the [releases page](https://github.com/meltwater/secretary/releases).

```
#!/bin/bash
set -e

SECRETARY_VERSION="x.y.z"

BASEDIR="$( cd "$( dirname "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}" )" && pwd )"
SECRETARY="$BASEDIR/target/secretary-`uname -s`-`uname -m`-${SECRETARY_VERSION}"

if [ ! -x "$SECRETARY" ]; then
    mkdir -p $(dirname "$SECRETARY")
    curl -sSfLo "$SECRETARY" https://github.com/meltwater/secretary/releases/download/${SECRETARY_VERSION}/secretary-`uname -s`-`uname -m`
    chmod +x "$SECRETARY"
fi

exec "$SECRETARY" $@
```

## Command Line Usage

```
# Avoid secrets ending up in bash history
set +o history

# Generate master and config key pairs
./secretary genkeys

# Generate example deploy and service key pairs
./secretary genkeys mydeploy myservice

# Generate an example service key
./secretary genkeys myservice

# Encrypt for writing into deployment config files
echo -n secret | ./secretary encrypt

# Encrypt using Amazon AWS KMS
# Note: You need AWS credentials setup in ~/.aws/credentials or envvars $AWS_ACCESS_KEY, $AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY, $AWS_REGION
echo -n secret | ./secretary encrypt --kms-key-id=12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012

# Decrypt (requires access to master-private-key)
echo <encrypted> | ./secretary decrypt

# Decrypt and substitute encrypted environment variables
eval $(./secretary decrypt -e)

# Decrypt all encrypted substrings in file
cat /path/to/secrets | ./secretary decrypt
```

## Secretary Daemon
Deploy several instances of the `secretary daemon` to trusted master nodes and create a
load balancer in front of them to ensure high availability. The daemon defaults to
bind to 5070/tcp. The `secretary daemon` is completely stateless and can be load balanced
easily.

The daemon has an HTTP health check endpoint at `/v1/status` that will respond with
`HTTP 200 OK` if all is well. This can be useful to point a load balancers health check
mechanism at.

### Systemd and CoreOS/Fleet
Create a [Systemd unit](http://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.unit.html) file
in **/etc/systemd/system/secretary.service** with contents like below. Using CoreOS and
[Fleet](https://coreos.com/docs/launching-containers/launching/fleet-unit-files/) then
add the X-Fleet section to schedule the unit on master nodes.

```
[Unit]
Description=Secretary secrets distribution
After=docker.service
Requires=docker.service

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target

[Service]
Environment=IMAGE=meltwater/secretary:latest NAME=secretary

# Allow docker pull to take some time
TimeoutStartSec=600

# Restart on failures
KillMode=none
Restart=always
RestartSec=15

ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker kill ${NAME}
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker rm ${NAME}
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker pull ${IMAGE}
ExecStart=/usr/bin/docker run --name=${NAME} \
    -p 5070:5070 \
    -v /etc/secretary/master-keys:/keys \
    -e MARATHON_URL=http://marathon-host:8080 \
    $IMAGE

ExecStop=/usr/bin/docker stop $NAME

[X-Fleet]
Global=true
MachineMetadata=role=master
```

### Puppet Hiera

Using the [garethr-docker](https://github.com/garethr/garethr-docker) module

```
classes:
  - docker::run_instance

docker::run_instance:
  'secretary':
    image: 'meltwater/secretary:latest'
    ports:
      - '5070:5070'
    volumes:
      - '/etc/secretary/master-keys:/keys'
    env:
      - 'MARATHON_URL=http://marathon-host:8080'
```

## Amazon AWS KMS
Secretary can encrypt and decrypt secrets using [AWS Key Management Service](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/)
which provides hardware security modules (HSMs) for key storage and access control, as well as audit logs
of key usage.

When interacting with KMS to encrypt or decrypt secrets you or the instance needs access to the AWS API
and the specific KMS key. Key access is managed via the AWS IAM console and can be both on the KMS API level
as well as fine grained permissions for each key.

For workstation access to encrypt secrets you typically need AWS credentials setup in *~/.aws/credentials* or 
environment variables *$AWS_ACCESS_KEY*, *$AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY* and *$AWS_REGION* so that secretary can interact 
with the KMS API.

AWS EC2 instances should use IAM roles rather than access keys, to grant them access to the KMS API and the 
specific KMS keys.

### Secrets in user-data
When using [CoreOS cloud-config](https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/cloud-config.html) and passing secrets
in the user-data section. 

In the examples replace the SECRETARY_VERSION with a version from the [releases page](https://github.com/meltwater/secretary/releases).
You also need to replace the `e59c5534e4e6fb3c2ad0d3c075d9e2fa664889b9` sha1sum with one that is calculated
from the exact version you intend to use. This can be done like

```
curl -sSL https://github.com/meltwater/secretary/releases/download/${SECRETARY_VERSION}/secretary-Linux-x86_64 | sha1sum -
```

#### Embedded Secretary binary
This CoreOS user-data example writes out /etc/environment.encrypted with encrypted secrets and forwards them 
into a Docker container as encrypted environment variables. The Docker image embeds the secretary binary and 
its startup script decrypts the environment using `eval $(secretary decrypt -e)`

```
#cloud-config
---
coreos:
  units:
  - name: myservice.service
    command: start
    content: |
      [Unit]
      After=docker.service decrypt.service
      Requires=docker.service decrypt.service

      [Service]
      EnvironmentFile=/etc/environment.encrypted
      Environment=IMAGE=myservice:latest NAME=myservice

      # Allow docker pull to take some time
      TimeoutStartSec=600

      # Restart on failures
      KillMode=none
      Restart=always
      RestartSec=15

      # Start Docker container
      ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker kill ${NAME}
      ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker rm ${NAME}
      ExecStartPre=-/bin/sh -c 'if ! docker images | tr -s " " : | grep "^${IMAGE}:"; then docker pull "${IMAGE}"; fi'      
      ExecStart=/usr/bin/docker run --name ${NAME} \
        -e "DATABASE_PASSWORD=${DATABASE_PASSWORD}" \
        -e "API_KEY=${API_KEY}" \
        ${IMAGE}

write_files:
  - path: "/etc/environment.encrypted"
    permissions: "0600"
    owner: "root"
    content: |
      DATABASE_PASSWORD=ENC[KMS,RP+BAwEBCmttc1BheWxvYWQB/4IAAQMBEEVuY3J5cHRlZERhdGFLZXkBCgABBU5vbmNlA==]
      API_KEY=ENC[KMS,SLXf+O9iG48uyojT0Zg30Q8/uRV8DizuDWMWtgL5PmTU54jxp5cTGrYeLpd86rA==]
```

#### External Secretary binary
This CoreOS user-data example writes out /etc/environment.encrypted with encrypted secrets. Then uses 
secretary and KMS to decrypt them and forwards the secrets into a Docker container as unencrypted environment variables.

```
#cloud-config
---
coreos:
  units:
  - name: myservice.service
    command: start
    content: |
      [Unit]
      After=docker.service decrypt.service
      Requires=docker.service decrypt.service

      [Service]
      EnvironmentFile=/etc/environment.encrypted
      Environment=IMAGE=myservice:latest NAME=myservice SECRETARY_VERSION=x.y.z

      # Allow docker pull to take some time
      TimeoutStartSec=600

      # Restart on failures
      KillMode=none
      Restart=always
      RestartSec=15

      # Download and verify signature of secretary binary
      ExecStartPre=/bin/sh -c '\
        if [ ! -f /usr/bin/secretary ]; then 
          curl -sSLo /usr/bin/secretary https://github.com/meltwater/secretary/releases/download/${SECRETARY_VERSION}/secretary-Linux-x86_64 && \
          chmod +x /usr/bin/secretary; 
        fi'
      ExecStartPre=/bin/sh -c 'echo e59c5534e4e6fb3c2ad0d3c075d9e2fa664889b9 /usr/bin/secretary | sha1sum -c -'

      # Start Docker container
      ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker kill ${NAME}
      ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/docker rm ${NAME}
      ExecStartPre=-/bin/sh -c 'if ! docker images | tr -s " " : | grep "^${IMAGE}:"; then docker pull "${IMAGE}"; fi'      
      ExecStart=/bin/sh -c 'eval $(secretary decrypt -e) && docker run --name myservice \
        -e "DATABASE_PASSWORD=${DATABASE_PASSWORD}" \
        -e "API_KEY=${API_KEY}" \
        myservice:latest'

write_files:
  - path: "/etc/environment.encrypted"
    permissions: "0600"
    owner: "root"
    content: |
      DATABASE_PASSWORD=ENC[KMS,RP+BAwEBCmttc1BheWxvYWQB/4IAAQMBEEVuY3J5cHRlZERhdGFLZXkBCgABBU5vbmNlA==]
      API_KEY=ENC[KMS,SLXf+O9iG48uyojT0Zg30Q8/uRV8DizuDWMWtgL5PmTU54jxp5cTGrYeLpd86rA==]
```
